Welcome everyone. I know we have several Sangha members here in the glorious Padmasamya Ling and
then due to the miracles of technology also we're able to join with you all here in one mandala of
wisdom, love, compassion, the blessings of the lineage and have some time to recall and reflect
and most importantly practice the practice Ngondro teachings. Let them settle into our minds and
hearts together as one mandala with our precious teachers Venable, Kenpo Segwandandjo Rinpoche,
Kenshin Poldensharab Rinpoche, His Holiness Dudjo Rinpoche, and all the great lineage masters. So
to begin as usual will just everyone rest our minds, let our bodies be in good posture,
supported by the earth, open to the sky, let our breath be natural, rest our minds and let
our joy, appreciation, bodhicitta and pure vision settle and arise as best we can and then we'll
begin with the seven line prayer and lineage prayers, just inviting the presence and blessings
and power and abilities of the three jewels, all the lineage masters and we'll reflect a little
on the teachings and then we'll practice. So we'll just start and begin, we'll start with a few
minutes of silent meditation resting and then we'll begin, we'll be using two main books today,
if you don't have the books you can order them or if you ordered them they may be on the way to you
but we will be reciting things in English so you can join in the meaning,
reflect in the meaning as best you can. Again my name is Laya and this is Lama Japa.
So we'll be using this treasury of precious mantras and prayers, also it's often called the
daily prayers or opening prayers and then also then the preliminary practice of the new treasure
of dujum or the the nundro sadhana. So first we'll, like I said, relax, just meditate quietly for
a few minutes and then we'll begin with the seven line prayer
and lineage prayers which begin in the daily prayers on page 14.
So,
so,
again, we'll begin with this seven line prayer,
evoking the presence and blessings of Guru Padmasambhava, embodiment of all
buddhas of the three times and then we'll also just continue on after that in our daily
prayers with this short guru yoga and then our lineage prayers.
Page 14.
So,
so,
please give your supreme blessing to this place. Please give me the four initiations of the supreme
practice. Please remove demons, misguidedness and obstacles. Please grant the supreme and ordinary
cities.
Oh,
oh,
oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh
oh, oh, oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
And so these are the five sections of Nundro, refuge, bodhicitta, mandala offering of accumulating
merit, purification of ara-sapa, removing destructive emotions, and then receiving the blessings of
the lineage with guru yoga practice.
So these are like the five kind of sets of a Nundro framework, and that's for any Tibetan Buddhist
practice of Nundro, these foundational practices.
And then the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism is the lineage through which this comes to us right
now as a lived experience.
And so specifically this Dujum Tersar Nundro is what we're focusing on here, and what Venerable Kem
per Ambitches have so kindly offered us, and then requested that we all kind of really reactivate
this as a living experience, and that this is a lifelong practice.
Nundro, like a real gentle reminder is this is a way of life.
Nundro becomes a way of life because love and compassion and wisdom is like a natural way of being,
and we're trying to really reconnect with that in ourselves and in others as much of the time as we
can.
So Nundro is a framework that would really bring that out in ourselves as a lived experience.
So that's why we put all the time and the years of practice into this.
It's really one of the most rewarding beneficial things we can do with our time, and we can offer
to others and become more kind and considerate when we're with others.
And then it comes down to just putting the time into doing the practice.
Let's do it.
Thank you.
Yeah, so that's it. Just a little bit. And again, this is just today.
We'll be meeting every Saturday, as far as the webcast, at least through June, except for the 19th.
So we'll have more time to reflect a little more. Just give a basic intro.
So this is the Dejum Tursar Nundro.
Like Lama Drapa just said, there are different sections and there are many different Nundro
practices.
We have this beautiful, concise practice given so fresh from the mind and heart of His Holiness, De
jum Rinpoche.
So this is the main practice we'll be focusing on.
But any commentary you can read on Nundro will apply.
And all the teachings we've heard can land in our Nundro.
And so we'll just maybe, we'll begin and really give time to settle into the practice as we're
chanting,
reflecting on the meaning, reflecting on the teachings we've heard, relaxing our mind,
connecting with our joy, appreciation, contentment, devotion, bodhicitta, and relaxing our mind.
So we'll start and then, like I mentioned in our email, if people have any questions, you can write
to us.
So we'll begin. Again, we'll just start with a little silence and now we'll be moving to this Nund
ro Sadhana.
Maybe as a good thing, we'll start also with this prayer, calling the Lama from afar.
We'll recite the seven-line prayer once and then, so seven-line prayer and this is on page 12 if
you need.
(Singing)
Samanta Padra, Padra Satva, Pramana Padra, Sri Singha, Patmakara, the twenty-five King and subjects
,
Sohsura, Nul, Nuh, Kannada, Turdhants, and others, the lamas of the Kama, internal lineages to you
I pray.
In the past you were the Vijadara, Nudin, Dorje, Sahl, in the future you will be the Buddha, Mopata
ey.
Now you are the regent of Padma Sambha, the actual presence of Drogba and Lotsawa,
Jigraul Yashidorje, to you I pray.
Happy with little, content and rich in jewels of the three trainings, with loving compassion,
seeing all beings as parents,
through threefold realization, you made three doors, three vajras, virtuous monk, Pema Sultram, to
you I pray.
The supreme tradition of the glorious Buddha, Padma Sambha, which is the essential, extraordinary
view and doctrine of the early translation school,
you keep alive and spread by the light of wisdom, Lord of Dharma, great Kempo, I pray at your lotus
feet.
In the palace of the oldman Darmadatta, the essence of all the Buddhas of the three times,
the one who shows clearly the Dharmakaya of my own mind, we pray to the honorable Rguru,
glorious root teacher, precious one, dwelling on the lotus seed on the crown of my head.
O me with your great kindness, bestow the accomplishments of body, speech and mind.
Let's go to this Calling the Lama from afar, page 18.
The essence, primordially unchanging, the innate nature, free from elaboration,
dwells as the youthful base body, the originally pure, profound clarity.
Darmakaya Lama, Isha Dorje, be aware of me.
Please grant the blessings to attain great confidence in the view.
The nature, unceasing, conjoined configuration of luminous clarity,
dwells as the display of the spontaneously present five certainties.
Sambha Gakaya Lama, Dich and Dorje, be aware of me.
Please grant the blessings to perfect great ability in meditation.
The compassion without bias, the primordial wisdom, free from all limitations,
dwells as the essence of all pervading, naked awareness, emptiness.
Narmakaya Lama, Drollo Lingpa, be aware of me.
Please grant the blessings to accomplish great progress and action.
The primordial ground of one's own awareness is unchanging and unmoving.
Whatever arises as the expression of Darmakaya is neither good nor bad,
since awareness of nowness is actually the Buddha.
Completely free, serene lama is revealed in one's innermost heart.
When this original mind is realized as the very nature of the lama,
there is no need for whining, contrived prayers made with grasping and attachment
by letting go in the free, natural flow of uncontrived awareness,
not holding whatever arises.
The blessings of self-liberation are obtained.
Through fabricated practice there is no time to achieve enlightenment.
This meditation produced through mental analysis and intellect is a deceiving enemy.
Now conceptualization falls apart with the abandon of a madman.
Let this life be spent in a state of uninhibited naked ease.
Whatever one does, joyful practitioner of the great perfection,
in any company happy lineage holder of the lotus form,
protector without rival, great treasure revealing lama,
teachings beyond compare, heart essence of the dikinis,
having dispelled the heart's darkness, great ignorance in its own place,
the undiminished sun of luminous clarity shines continuously.
This good fortune is the kindness of the lama, the only father,
unrepayable kindness, only remember the lama,
unrepayable kindness, only remember the lama.
Now we'll go to the next session.
Now the container for our practice is about an hour now.
So just knowing that, that's how we'll pace this.
We'll chant a little in Tibetan and then also in English in reflecting on the meaning.
These words are the doors to really allow ourselves to work with our own mind
and reflect on these qualities of the teachings
which are bringing out our own beautiful goodness qualities.
So we begin now with this outer nundra reflecting on these four thoughts
that turn the mind toward the dharma.
(Singing)
Lama, lama, infallible, constant protector, be aware of me.
The freedoms and the favorable conditions of this human birth
are extremely difficult to obtain.
Everything born is impermanent and bound to die.
The results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions
which our causes are inexorable.
The three realms of cyclic existence have the nature of an ocean of suffering.
Remembering this, may my mind turn towards the dharma.
Lama, lama, infallible, constant protector, be aware of me.
The freedoms and the favorable conditions of this human birth
are extremely difficult to obtain.
Everything born is impermanent and bound to die.
The results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions
which our causes are inexorable.
The three realms of cyclic existence have the nature of an ocean of suffering.
Remembering this, may my mind turn towards the dharma.
Lama, infallible, constant protector, be aware of me.
The freedoms and the favorable conditions of this human birth
are extremely difficult to obtain.
Everything born is impermanent and bound to die.
The results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions
which our causes are inexorable.
The three realms of cyclic existence have the nature of an ocean of suffering.
Remembering this, may my mind turn towards the dharma.
We'll just sit with that for a few moments.
Now we'll begin the actual inner nundra or extraordinary foundational practices.
So we're beginning with going for refuge, the gateway to all Buddhist practice
which is essentially our joy, devotion, trust,
closeness feeling with the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha,
in this case embodied as Guru Padmasambhava and all the lineage masters.
And so again, as we continue we can go over each section
but today we'll move through and connect in whatever way
you're connecting with this practice.
And we'll give about five minutes to do this.
Traditionally we recite these two lines
in the presence of Guru Rinpoche and all the great lineage masters,
Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, Devas, Dakinis, Dharmapalas,
all the Buddhas of the three times, all the great lineage masters.
With the mother and father of this life to our right and left
and all beings of the six realms before us
and in one voice with gesture of our body, speech and mind
we pay with deep reverence our joy, devotion, courage and commitment
to the path, to the teachings and to our precious teachers.
And so we'll begin chanting and then we'll all get up
and we'll do prostrations for maybe about five minutes.
So if prostrations are hard for you you can do as you do
or traditionally if you do Samvadrasattva.
If you'd like to join us, please.
[singing]
From now until ting the heart of enlightenment
I take refuge in the lama, the three jewels.
From now until attaining the heart of enlightenment
[singing]
I take refuge in the lama, the three jewels.
From now until attaining the heart of enlightenment
[singing]
I take refuge in the lama, the three jewels.
From now until attaining the heart of enlightenment
Now we can sit and then briefly the visualization now
is again, Guru Rinpoche is before us
to his right and left, the Buddhas of the three times
all the Arhats and Bodhisattvas
behind all the texts and teachings
before all of the dakinis and deities of the three roots.
All the assembly of the tree they merge into Guru Rinpoche's form
and then all the beings of the six realms
including our mother and father of this life
like a massive flock of birds just alight up into the tree
and all dissolves into Guru Rinpoche
through our great connection like shooting star go to his heart
and then we'll just rest our mind in that place.
[Silence]
Now we'll continue with the second section on page 30,
generation of bodhicitta.
Another main foundation of our practice, precious bodhicitta.
So again with Guru Rinpoche and all the refuge tree before us
we'll express our deep motivation with the four boundless.
Reflect on the meaning of these words.
So what we'll do is we'll recite these words
connecting with their meaning generating our bodhicitta
the mind of loving kindness and compassion
and then we'll recite all together
and then as usual then we can each move into our own rhythm
of reciting this bodhicitta vows
and then we'll do that for maybe about one Maha.
[Silence]
From now until samsara becomes empty
I shall accomplish the benefits and happiness
of all sentient parent beings.
From now until samsara becomes empty
I shall accomplish the benefits and happiness
of all sentient parent beings.
From now until samsara becomes empty
I shall accomplish the benefits and happiness
of all sentient parent beings.
from now until samsara becomes empty
From now until samsara becomes empty
I shall accomplish the benefits and happiness
of all sentient parent beings
From now until samsara becomes empty
I shall accomplish the benefits and happiness
of all sentient parent beings.
From now until samsara becomes empty
I shall accomplish the benefits and happiness
of all sentient parent beings.
I will just rest her mind in bodhicitta.
Thank you.
I will move to the next section
which is a mandala offering
accumulation of merit
which is essentially offering
just like it says
offering everything within our experience
imagined and actual to the three jewels
to perfect our path.
And so we have this mudra
and later we can go over the actual mandala plate
but for now we'll make this mudra
and again we'll recite
and then we'll all go at our own pace
for maybe about five minutes.
Again in the presence of Gurumpushe,
all the three roots, three jewels.
The bodies, enjoyments,
possessions and glories
of the succession of all my lifetimes.
I offer to the three jewels
in order to complete the two accumulations.
The bodies, enjoyments, possessions and glories
of the succession of all my lifetimes.
I offer to the three jewels
in order to complete the two accumulations.
The bodies, enjoyments, possessions and glories
of the succession of all my lifetimes.
I offer to the three jewels
in order to complete the two accumulations.
In order to complete the two accumulations,
in order to complete the two accumulations,